For the add two card feature will need to work on two things.
One is of course that we can have a card screen that we have.
I can hear in our header that takes us to the card screen where we can see like the total sum and the
card items and where we have that order now button.
But I'd say that's the second step because the the more important first step is that we add the logic
to manage card items and dad involves redux for this.
I'll add a brand new reducer a second reducer which I'll name card card J.S. and also actions fall.
And this is not actually action fall we will populate.
We'll do that with the products fall later too.
Once we dive into adding products and so on but for now let's start with the card feature so here in
the card J.S. fault in the reduced folder.
I'll set up my initial state for that card slice and again it's all these separate producers and the
states they manage to make up that total redux store because in the end that's what you then combined
here with combined reduces into one route reducer in one big state in the end.
We just have these individual sub states to make managing the data easier.
So here in the card reducer how should the state for our card look like.
While our card will have a bunch of items could be an array and a sum which initially zero so a total
amount you could say you could of course alter named US total amount maybe to make it really clear what
this is.
So these are the two things that make up my card here.
And as always I can't emphasize this enough there is more than way of implementing this so if you want
to manage some other data here as well.
Definitely do so.
There is no single right or wrong approach.
This is just my approach of building this app.
Now it's important that for this card here I want to make sure that if we have an item in the card already
let's say the red shirt and I click to cart a second time.
I don't add queue items to say Ray but I still only have one item in there and instead every item in
that items array should be an object where I manage like the idea of the product may be where I have
the title and the quantity of the item in the cart.
So dead would then change to 2 if I click on it a second time.
DFAT you could actually also argue that items maybe shouldn't be an array but maybe a javascript object
because that allows us to store the idea of the product as a key and the value could be an object with
the title with the quantity with the price.
That's just an alternative.
You could also do it as all with an array but that's actually the approach I will use.
Now the reducer I export therefore is a reducer which of course gets a state which has our initial state
as a default value and an action as our argument which in the end needs to return some data.
So in the end it needs to return a new state which is then used by redux.
Now we need an action to continue.
So you're all expert a constant and action identifier and all named is add to cart the identifier is
up to you all go with add to cart like this and in the actions file I will create such a action.
Create or function.
So here in number a constant which I'll name.
Add to cart which receives let's say the full product object which I want to add so that I can pull
out information I need and then in here we have to return such a action object which has a type which
is add to cart and then our product.
This is just a way of creating these actions that makes it very simple for us to do that inside of our
components.
So in the end the card reducer in all reduces actually but niqab reduces is the place where we care
will get set.
Add to card action So here we need to switch the action type and handle the case that it's Add to Cart
and therefore you should import.
Add to Cart from that actions folder and there from the card file it's by the way important.
This action when it's dispatched is received on all road users but if you don't handle it with a separate
case your default case will kick in which normally should just return your current state slice for this
reducer which means the state slice for district use reason changed here.
However in the card reduce I of course want to change my state.
Hence I do handle to add to cart.
Case here and now in add to cart.
What should happen there.
Well we get our added product we can pulled it out of the action because are in the action we'll have
a product key.
That's what we just set up here in the action cart just fall.
So will it get our product that I'm storing it in a constant added product here with which we can work
now.
And we'll have our product price here which is of course added product price and we'll have our product
title which is added product daughter title before we continue let's define how a card item.
So what we store here should look like the value we have in there.
So go to my models folder and add a card dash item dot shares fall here and then add a cart item clause
which receives the constructor.
And before I forget it again which needs to be import export it here and now in that constructor I expect
to get the quantity of the product we're about at the product price.
The product title and the sum for this item if we have three times the red shirt are a somewhat B three
times twenty nine point ninety nine.
So roughly around 90 dollars.
Now what I don't get here is the product idea because I will use that as a key inside of my object here.
Which items holds and then will become clearer once we implement it.
So here in the card item I just store all the data I receive.
Quantity product price and I have that data.
India which I need to output later so product title and the some like this.
And now back in the reducer we can of course import discard item plus from the models folder and from
card item here and now back in that add two card case down there.
We've first of all need to find out whether that product is already part of our items.
Now as I mentioned I'll add every new product by adding a new key to items which is the idea of that
product since Dad is unique.
We always have each key only once and then the value will be a card item as we justified it in models
and hence I know if the idea of the product I'm getting here is already a key of items then this already
has our item as a card item.
So here we can simply check if items for added product dot I.D. exists.
So if that returns something true ish so not undefined then we already have the item in the card which
is OK but then we just need to change the quantity.
Otherwise we'll need to add a brand new item.
So let's start with the ALS case because that's the case will first encounter when we add something
for the first time.
There we need a new card item and a created with the new keyword.
And the card item class be defined and in there we need to provide the quantity which of course is one
if we just add a new item.
We need to provide the product price the product title here and to some and to some of course initially
is just our product price right.
Because if we add one item of that price than the sum for discard item is our product price.
And now it is a new card item has to be added to our card items here
so here we return a copy of our state.
And we said items equal to a new object where I copy all my existing state items in so that I copy my
existing items.
Object here and then I add a new key with this dynamic syntax with the square brackets where the key
name is added product dot I.D. That's what I meant with the idea of the product being the key in our
items object and the value is our new card item.
This is just a syntax you have to know it's vanilla javascript This is how you can add or axis as up
here a dynamic property instead of hard coding it as a string here by the way disappears and of course
all be state DOT items by mistake so if this we should add a new card item here.
Now if you already have an item in the card then of course we don't create a new card item instead we
want to update the existing one so I'll have my updated card item here and for that I still create a
new card item but I'll pre populate it with some existing data.
For example the quantity here we get that from state items for the idea of the added product because
that should already be part of the state items we're checking this here and this will have a quantity
key of course because such a item here in my items is just of type card items so we'll have a quantity
property.
We simply add one to that because we're adding a new card item.
So we have to increment this now card item is a second argument takes the product price that of course
since we will built the app such that the price never changes which would add a lot of complexity here.
We would have to manage the card a totally different way in that case we would have to store each card
item as a list of transactions for this card item which is set to match for this year.
So since this never changes since the price never changes we can Indiana just take the prod price we're
getting or take the existing price we stored before because that again will never change.
The title might change in a want to store the most recent title here so we'll definitely take to one
of the product we're getting here instead of my old snap snapshot.
And last but not least the last value here my total sum for this card item.
That of course is to occur current some so I access state items 40 ideas here some plus the product
price because we add one new item here we have to add the price times 1 to the current sum that's the
updated card item.
Now with that we can return our new state slice here by copying the old states and setting items equal
Q And now important to an object where we copy state DOT items but where we now again set added product
dot I.D. And yes this exists already but with that we simply overwrite it with our updated card item.
So we do the same update we do down there now.
That however is not all we need to do we need.
We need to change the total amount as well because that of course changes.
So when we add a item for the first time then the total amount should be basically our old total amount.
So state total amount plus product price and it's the same.
If we add an item to an existing card or when it already exists in there because in the end our total
always justice to old total plus the price because we always add one item off that product.
That's how does Apple work.
So our update statement here is almost the same.
The only thing that differs is here how we create that card item therefore we can of course all the
reuse this code moved as out of the if else block and instead of having two different constants here
we can create a variable before we enter D if statement
updated or a new card item.
Maybe that could be a name because we don't know what it will be in advance.
And then here in the if branch here we said updated or new card item to this updated card item here
on the other hand we set it to this new card item and here we didn't always use the updated or new card
item and with Dad we have some code reuse such here and.
Well don't repeat ourselves which is always good whenever a side note copying the state here of course
is always redundant because you always set both items and total amount.
So if you always only have these two fields in here and you always change to both you don't need to
copy the existing state if you ever introduce another piece of data to your state slice here which you
don't change down here or whoever you need to copy your old state so that you don't lose that additional
data.
Hence here I will leave that copying functionality even though we don't technically need it here but
if we ever should change our state we're saved and we don't forget to copy it.
And we therefore lose data.
Well there was a lot of work with that.
We can start dispatching does action.
And of course I wanted dispatched from the product overview and the product details.
Because in both screens I have add to cart buttons.
Let's start on the products overview screen there to dispatch redux actions we need to include the use
dispatch hook here.
With that here we can simply get access to this dispatch function by calling use dispatch like this.
And now when we click on Add To Cart down there we can dispatch our action here.
And of course by the way instead of using inline functions here you could have functions stored in separate
constants inside of your functional component here.
As an alternative I'll stick to inline functions for now and I will import all my actions here as card
actions from the store folder and they're the actions folder the card file.
Now this is a import syntax which merges all exports from the file together into one object.
We only have one export here though for it.
Therefore you could all to target that specific export.
Later we'll have multiple exports and therefore I'll use this approach.
So here we then dispatch card action start.
Add to Cart and this is a function we have to execute this is our action creator function and this as
our argument takes our product.
So in the and here we have to pass an item data dot item which is just our product here the product
detail screen.
Therefore we do the exact same thing we import use dispatch from react redux.
Therefore a here we can get access to the dispatch function by calling you as dispatch.
And then for this button here in the inline function or in a separate named function if you like that
you can call dispatch.
Now we need to import our actions and I'll use the same syntax as before where I input everything as
card actions from the store folder the actions folder the card file and now card actions call add to
cart here and forward the selected product which is our product we want to add to the card here.
This hopefully dispatches actions such that the item is added to the cart but of course right now we
can't confirm this.
Well actually we can you can spin up react native debugger and I haven't used this before but in there
can now hit command or control t to open a new tab then confirm this port here
and then
go to your apps
and in their open the debugging menu on ours with command D on Android with control or command.
M
click on debug remote javascript now mine opened on Port 19 0 0 3 actually so I opened the react native
debugger on the wrong port.
Select me again hit command T or control T in the debugger and choose 19 o free use whatever port open
for you in Chrome click confirm and now does connects to your running react app here in the debugger
make sure you close your chrome debugger and then reload your app.
Now this should connect here and now not only can you Inspector app here.
As I explained it earlier.
No.
You can also have a look at the part up there and that is your read X debugger.
There you can see what redux is doing for you.
The only thing you have to do for it is to make it work is installing you package with npm install dash
dash safe def because it's a development dependency which we only need during development and their
install the redux dev tools extension.
Go to your app jazz file there after and then import
this from this redux.
Def tools extension you can import compose with Def tools from there.
That's a function you pass to create store as a second argument.
Is simply executed there like this now by the way.
Does this code does.
Import and just use it you should remove before you deploy your app because this is only something that
should be running during development not in your production apps you need to remove that before you
deploy rep but during development that is fine with it added If you now safeties you'll actually see
that here in this redux Inspector you see and in it action being dispatched you didn't see that before.
That's action which automatically is dispatched when your app starts.
If I now click on to cart here you'll also see the add to card action.
Now here you can view details about that action like the day that it was attached to it and about your
state here and there you see for example this is my product state and.
Whereas my card state.
Well that's of course missing because whilst we have to reduce our into action set up in the app just
fall in combined with users we're not including the card state.
So there let's import the card reducer from dot slash store reducer as card and now with that imported
we can add it to our combined road users object and now data we add a card slice for example point that
the card reduce or different now this gets included into our redux store with Dad if you now wait for
it to reload and you click on to card again now and is add to card action under state.
You'll see that now there is a card slice and now you see there is a total amount you see there is an
item with the key p 1 which is our product with a quantity of 1 that price.
Some of this and if I now click on two card a second time here there is no action dispatched and if
we have a look at the state after this action we now see cool.
Only one item but now with quantity to product price per item is this.
But the sum is this.
This is the shirt.
If I now dispatch the blue carpet as well.
We got to add two card one more time and they are in the state we now indeed see there are two items
in there P1 and P2.
P1 is unchanged but P2 was now added and the total amount also looks good to me.
So this seems to work and this is how you can look into a redux stayed whilst your app is running without
out putting it here.
Now of course we all do want to output it visually but this is a nice way of looking into your state
behind the scenes with the help of the react native debugger.
Now we'll close it here because it slows down the app a bit and then returned to debug menu I'll also
stop my remote debugging and close the Inspector here entirely.
Also back in the app last fall I will get rid of the of their compose with theft tools thing year so
that I don't forget it later.
But you can always add this here or leave it here whilst you are developing so that you can look into
your store.
The main takeaway for us here is that this seems to work.
And with that working of course we can now work on adding a action button here to the header and make
sure we can go to the card page from that or with the help of that action button so that on the card
page we can output our card information.